from blender i rendered 12 different
layers in five categories
background elements foreground elements
fog
masks and additional lighting
i wouldn't have rendered so many
different layers but i was working under
a deadline so my process changed a
little and i did some unconventional
things
i have another video that explains the
backstory and process behind creating
this scene in blender and i encourage
you to check out that video if you
haven't seen it already
here we are in after effects cs6 why cs6
because it's the latest version that
doesn't require a subscription fee and
it still does everything
first i'm going to import all of the
rendered elements to do this i usually
just double click the project window and
navigate to the file location be sure to
check the image sequence box and in the
project window make sure the frame rate
is set correctly if it isn't set
correctly right click on the clip choose
interpret footage main then set the
frame rate you can also set the default
import frame rate in the preferences
it's a good idea to rename your image
sequences as you go to make them much
easier to find later
now that all the layers are imported i'm
going to create a new composition by
dragging the background layer onto the
new composition button
now i'll just add the rest of the
foreground layers on top
some of these layers aren't as long
because the elements aren't on screen
for the whole animation
the ones that appear later will have to
get moved back to align with the scene
now it's time to add the fog pass the
fog pass gets placed on top of the
foreground layers and set to the screen
mode
here i'm duplicating the fog a few times
to make it appear more dense
i tried experimenting by adding a hue
saturation effect to the fog layers to
increase the saturation so the scene
didn't seem so washed out but i didn't
do this in the original and i wind up
reducing the saturation quite a bit
later on
if your layers were rendered in 16 bit
make sure to change the bit depth of the
project by clicking here and changing it
to 16 bits per channel
after some additional adjustments on the
saturation i'm copying the effect to the
other fog layers
now i'm going to make some adjustments
to the overall image by adding an
adjustment layer on top and giving it
the curves effect
adjusting the curve like this will give
the image more contrast by brightening
the highlights and darkening the shadows
now it's time to make the character
really pop out by adding the character
edge light pass it can simply be placed
above the foreground elements and set to
screen mode
if it's too intense the opacity can be
lowered but if it's too subtle it can be
duplicated to increase the intensity
here i'm duplicating it and giving it
the gaussian blur effect to simulate a
little bloom from the highlights
it's a bit intense though so by pressing
t i can quickly reveal the opacity
control and turn it down
now it's time to utilize the character
mask to brighten up the entire character
drag the mask layer above the layer that
contains the character
then make another adjustment layer and
place it below the mask layer
naming your layers is a good idea
apply the curves effect to the new
adjustment layer and set the track matte
mode to luma matte
now when you adjust the curves it only
affects the character
because i had already rendered my main
scene and i didn't have time before the
deadline to re-render it i used the same
technique to darken the feet i did this
mainly to avert attention away from the
feet and their imperfect ground
collision
now i'm going to select everything and
go to layer pre-compose
this gathers everything that i selected
and puts it in a new composition
this allows you to do some things that
you couldn't do with adjustment layers
here i'm duplicating the pre-comp
boosting the saturation blurring it then
setting it to the color transfer mode
doing this softens the color and makes
it look more painterly or more like an
hdr photo i'll talk more about that in a
minute
double-clicking on the pre-comp will
take you back into the original
composition
now i'm going to add the sharpen effect
to my adjustment layer
renders straight out of blender don't
have any sharpening so adding some can
help the image look crisp but it also
makes it look more like it was shot on
an actual camera because most cameras at
least the consumer level anyway add
sharpening
now i'm going to apply a glow or bloom
effect by going back into the other
composition that contains the duplicated
precomps and making another duplicate
this time i'm applying a curves effect a
fast blur effect and setting it to the
screen mode
the curves can be dialed in so only the
brighter parts of the image are glowing
it's looking pretty good but the
background is too bright
i'm going to keep pushing the hdr look
by darkening the background
if you're used to the term hdr10 as a
display technology or hdri environments
from the world of 3d you may not know
what i'm talking about
hdr simply means high dynamic range but
in photography it describes the
technique of taking multiple exposures
at a wide dynamic range and tone mapping
the stacked images to produce more
contrast throughout the image this is
more or less the look i'm going for
so to darken the background i'm going to
bring in a mask of the background then
place another adjustment layer below it
and set the track matte mode of the
adjustment layer to alpha matte
now the effects applied to the
adjustment layer only affect the masked
area however the hard edge of the mask
ruins the look but luckily we can apply
effects to the mask too
so i'm going to give the mask a fast
blur being sure to check the repeat edge
pixels box
much better
i have some smoke coming from the
manhole in the street but it didn't
really show up very well in the main
render so i rendered it out by itself to
add in later
i'm going to add it to the composition
just below the fog layers and set it to
the screen transfer mode
it's a little too bright as is so by
pressing t you can easily bring up the
opacity control to darken it down a
little
it still looks a little weird however
because the bottom edge is such a harsh
line
so i'm going to switch to the rectangle
mask tool and select the bottom part of
it by pressing f you can bring up the
mask feather adjustment also change the
mask mode from add to subtract
if the mask needs to be adjusted it can
sometimes be easier to change the mask
expansion instead of moving the mask
itself
i noticed that my skyline was a bit
empty looking so i decided to add a
skyscraper to the background to do this
i used an image from textures.com
it can just be dropped into the comp
cropped if necessary and scaled to match
the scene
make sure that it's placed below the fog
layers and set to screen mode
now it's time to really blend it into
the scene
as you can see the background of the
image doesn't quite match the scene
background this can be easily fixed by
adding a curves adjustment and darkening
the blacks
now it still doesn't match the scene so
i'm going to add a fast blur to match
the softness of the other background
elements
the problem now is that it doesn't move
along with the rest of the background to
fix this add a null object depending on
how much your scene moves you may want
to motion track it but in this case i'm
just going to manually place it on
another prominent background element and
set a position keyframe by pressing p to
bring up the position controls and
clicking the stopwatch icon now i can
move the playhead to the beginning of
the animation and realign the null
object with a background object
unlike blender after effects will
automatically place a keyframe when you
move the null object now all you have to
do is click and drag the pick whip from
the building layer to the null object to
parent it to the track the problem now
is that the skyscraper is overlapping
the foreground buildings
luckily i already have a mask that i can
use to fix this
place the mask layer above the building
layer and set the building's track matte
mode to alpha matte
i noticed a problematic glow around the
character this is being caused by the
character brightness adjustment layer so
to fix it i'm going to select the
character mask apply a blur to it and
then a curves adjustment to darken it
down choking in the mask a little
the most annoying problem i had to deal
with in this scene however was when the
character's feet didn't fully contact
the ground
i fixed this by making a solid that
matched the color of the shadow and then
masking and keyframing it to follow the
foot's motion it took a lot of tweaking
to make this look good
in hindsight it probably would have been
easier to make the sole of the foot
thicker instead of trying to match the
shadow feather and fall off especially
when the foot is lifting off the ground
that's it for this video though i've
described how to do this in after
effects basically everything i've shown
here could also be done in the blender
compositor
thanks for watching this video if you
enjoyed it please consider subscribing
[Music]
you